README.md, before:

<div align="left">
  <a href="https://github.com/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby"><img width="136" src="https://github.com/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby/raw/master/icons/icon.png" alt="eventfinda ruby logo" /></a>
</div>

# EventFinda Ruby
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/event_finda_ruby.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/event_finda_ruby)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby?branch=master)
[![Downloads](http://ruby-gem-downloads-badge.herokuapp.com/event_finda_ruby/0.3.1?type=total&color=brightgreen)](https://rubygems.org/gems/event_finda_ruby)

A Ruby client for the EventFinda API: www.eventfinda.co.nz

## Features

* Intuitive API interface navigation.
* Currently supports a variety of the API methods for `Events`, `Categories`, `Artists` and `Locations`  resources.
* Modular design allows for working with only parts of API you need.
* URL generation process fully tested when applying filters for each request.
* API integration tests recorded and fully tested using [VCR](https://github.com/vcr/vcr) gem: fast tests (first HTTP request is real and it's response is stored for future runs), deterministic (tests will continue to pass, even if you are offline, or eventfinda.co.nz goes down for maintenance) and accurate (responses will contain the same headers and body you get from a real request).

## Installation

Install the gem by running:

```ruby
gem install event_finda_ruby
```

or put it in your Gemfile and run `bundle install`:

```ruby
gem "event_finda_ruby", "~> 0.3.1"
```

## 1. Usage

To start using the gem, you should get a developer account (free) from EventFinda's website: http://www.eventfinda.co.nz/api/v2/index

EventFinda will provide you with a `username/password` pair so you can use from now on.

Setup those credentials within an initializer:

```ruby
# event_finda_initializer.rb

EventFindaRuby.configure do |config|
  config.username = "event_finda"
  config.password = "123123"
end
```

Then create a new filter instance (in this example, to retrieve `Events`) like so:

```ruby
filter = EventFindaRuby::Events.new
```

and then call api methods, for instance, to filter `free` events:

```ruby
filter.by_free
```

or `featured` events:

```ruby
filter.by_featured
```

or `free` and `featured` events:

```ruby
filter.by_free.by_featured
```

Once applied all the filters you need, make the API call to get the events:

```ruby
filter.results
```

To see a full list of examples please check the <a href="https://github.com/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby/wiki">wiki</a> page.

## 2. Response
The response format is JSON by default. It can be changed to XML like this:

```ruby
filter.with_extension("xml")
```

Results are provided as an array of objects with the following structure (JSON):

```ruby
filter = EventFindaRuby::Events.new
filter.results
=> [
  { "id": 353192,
    "url": "http://www.eventfinda.co.nz/2016/resene-rainbow-run/new-plymouth",
    "url_slug": "2016/resene-rainbow-run/new-plymouth",
    "name": "Resene Rainbow Run: SOLD OUT",
    "presented_by": "",
    "description": "London, Glasgow, Sydney, Abu Dhabi, Melbourne, Queenstown, and now Taranaki! There's nothing else like it in Taranaki! Get together with your friends, family and colleagues to participate in Taranaki’s first ever ...",
    "datetime_start": "2016-04-10 11:00:00",
    "datetime_end": "2016-04-10 15:00:00",
    "location_summary": "Coastal Walkway, New Plymouth",
    "address": "New Plymouth Foreshore, New Plymouth",
    "is_free": false,
    "is_featured": true,
    "is_cancelled": false,
    "restrictions": "All Ages",
    "point": {
      "lat": -39.0594,
      "lng": 174.0513
    },
    "username": "lisarhx",
    "timezone": "Pacific/Auckland",
    "location": {...},
    "category": {...},
    "datetime_summary": "Sun 10 Apr",
    "sessions": {...},
    "ticket_types": {...},
    "artists": {...},
    "web_sites": {...},
    "images": {...}
  },..
]
```

For the sake of the example here, **location**, **category**, **sessions**, **ticket_types**, **artists**, **websites** and **images** keys contain more information related with the event that are not displayed above.

## 3. Modularity

This gem allow developers to query `Events`, `Artists`, `Categories` and `Locations` resources from the EventFinda API:

```ruby
filter = EventFindaRuby::Events.new
```

```ruby
filter = EventFindaRuby::Artists.new
```

```ruby
filter = EventFindaRuby::Categories.new
```

```ruby
filter = EventFindaRuby::Locations.new
```
## 4. Implementation
Setting up this gem to work is really easy. Even more if you use `has_scope` gem:

```ruby
class EventsController < ApplicationController

  has_scope :by_free,        as: :free,        type: :boolean
  has_scope :by_featured,    as: :featured,    type: :boolean
  has_scope :by_price_min,   as: :price_min
  has_scope :by_price_max,   as: :price_max
  has_scope :by_keywords_or, as: :keywords_or, type: :array

  helper_method :collection

  def index
  end

  private

  def collection
    @collection ||= events_filter.results
  end

  def events_filter
    @events_filter ||= apply_scopes(filter)
  end

  def filter
    @filter ||= EventFindaRuby::Events.new
  end
end
```

## 5. Work in progress

- Caching implementation when executing the same API request twice.
- API timeout handling scenarios.

## 6. Development

Questions or problems? Please post them on the [issue tracker](https://github.com/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby/issues). You can contribute changes by forking the project and submitting a pull request. You can ensure the tests are passing by running `bundle` and `rake`.

## 7. Copyright

Copyright © 2016 Juan Roldan. See [LICENSE.txt](https://github.com/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby/blob/master/LICENSE.txt) for further details.

Commit message:

'Working example' added to README

README.md, after:

<div align="left">
  <a href="https://github.com/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby"><img width="136" src="https://github.com/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby/raw/master/icons/icon.png" alt="eventfinda ruby logo" /></a>
</div>

# EventFinda Ruby
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/event_finda_ruby.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/event_finda_ruby)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby?branch=master)
[![Downloads](http://ruby-gem-downloads-badge.herokuapp.com/event_finda_ruby/0.3.1?type=total&color=brightgreen)](https://rubygems.org/gems/event_finda_ruby)

A Ruby client for the EventFinda API: www.eventfinda.co.nz

## Features

* Intuitive API interface navigation.
* Currently supports a variety of the API methods for `Events`, `Categories`, `Artists` and `Locations`  resources.
* Modular design allows for working with only parts of API you need.
* URL generation process fully tested when applying filters for each request.
* API integration tests recorded and fully tested using [VCR](https://github.com/vcr/vcr) gem: fast tests (first HTTP request is real and it's response is stored for future runs), deterministic (tests will continue to pass, even if you are offline, or eventfinda.co.nz goes down for maintenance) and accurate (responses will contain the same headers and body you get from a real request).

## Installation

Install the gem by running:

```ruby
gem install event_finda_ruby
```

or put it in your Gemfile and run `bundle install`:

```ruby
gem "event_finda_ruby", "~> 0.3.1"
```

## 1. Usage

To start using the gem, you should get a developer account (free) from EventFinda's website: http://www.eventfinda.co.nz/api/v2/index

EventFinda will provide you with a `username/password` pair so you can use from now on.

Setup those credentials within an initializer:

```ruby
# event_finda_initializer.rb

EventFindaRuby.configure do |config|
  config.username = "event_finda"
  config.password = "123123"
end
```

Then create a new filter instance (in this example, to retrieve `Events`) like so:

```ruby
filter = EventFindaRuby::Events.new
```

and then call api methods, for instance, to filter `free` events:

```ruby
filter.by_free
```

or `featured` events:

```ruby
filter.by_featured
```

or `free` and `featured` events:

```ruby
filter.by_free.by_featured
```

Once applied all the filters you need, make the API call to get the events:

```ruby
filter.results
```

To see a full list of examples please check the <a href="https://github.com/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby/wiki">wiki</a> page.

## 2. Response
The response format is JSON by default. It can be changed to XML like this:

```ruby
filter.with_extension("xml")
```

Results are provided as an array of objects with the following structure (JSON):

```ruby
filter = EventFindaRuby::Events.new
filter.results
=> [
  { "id": 353192,
    "url": "http://www.eventfinda.co.nz/2016/resene-rainbow-run/new-plymouth",
    "url_slug": "2016/resene-rainbow-run/new-plymouth",
    "name": "Resene Rainbow Run: SOLD OUT",
    "presented_by": "",
    "description": "London, Glasgow, Sydney, Abu Dhabi, Melbourne, Queenstown, and now Taranaki! There's nothing else like it in Taranaki! Get together with your friends, family and colleagues to participate in Taranaki’s first ever ...",
    "datetime_start": "2016-04-10 11:00:00",
    "datetime_end": "2016-04-10 15:00:00",
    "location_summary": "Coastal Walkway, New Plymouth",
    "address": "New Plymouth Foreshore, New Plymouth",
    "is_free": false,
    "is_featured": true,
    "is_cancelled": false,
    "restrictions": "All Ages",
    "point": {
      "lat": -39.0594,
      "lng": 174.0513
    },
    "username": "lisarhx",
    "timezone": "Pacific/Auckland",
    "location": {...},
    "category": {...},
    "datetime_summary": "Sun 10 Apr",
    "sessions": {...},
    "ticket_types": {...},
    "artists": {...},
    "web_sites": {...},
    "images": {...}
  },..
]
```

For the sake of the example here, **location**, **category**, **sessions**, **ticket_types**, **artists**, **websites** and **images** keys contain more information related with the event that are not displayed above.

## 3. Modularity

This gem allow developers to query `Events`, `Artists`, `Categories` and `Locations` resources from the EventFinda API:

```ruby
filter = EventFindaRuby::Events.new
```

```ruby
filter = EventFindaRuby::Artists.new
```

```ruby
filter = EventFindaRuby::Categories.new
```

```ruby
filter = EventFindaRuby::Locations.new
```
## 4. Implementation
Setting up this gem to work is really easy. Even more if you use `has_scope` gem:

```ruby
class EventsController < ApplicationController

  has_scope :by_free,        as: :free,        type: :boolean
  has_scope :by_featured,    as: :featured,    type: :boolean
  has_scope :by_price_min,   as: :price_min
  has_scope :by_price_max,   as: :price_max
  has_scope :by_keywords_or, as: :keywords_or, type: :array

  helper_method :collection

  def index
  end

  private

  def collection
    @collection ||= events_filter.results
  end

  def events_filter
    @events_filter ||= apply_scopes(filter)
  end

  def filter
    @filter ||= EventFindaRuby::Events.new
  end
end
```
A working example can be found here: [My Budget App](https://github.com/juanroldan1989/my-budget-app)

## 5. Work in progress

- Caching implementation when executing the same API request twice.
- API timeout handling scenarios.

## 6. Development

Questions or problems? Please post them on the [issue tracker](https://github.com/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby/issues). You can contribute changes by forking the project and submitting a pull request. You can ensure the tests are passing by running `bundle` and `rake`.

## 7. Copyright

Copyright © 2016 Juan Roldan. See [LICENSE.txt](https://github.com/juanroldan1989/event_finda_ruby/blob/master/LICENSE.txt) for further details.
